# General Analysis of the Human Activity Recognition (HAR) Using Smartphones Dataset Version 1.0

**By:** Harry Ramirez - Data Science Student

The original data set for this analysis was downloaded from:
[https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip](https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip)

Detail information about the original data set can be found at [Human Activity Recognition Using Smartphones Dataset V1.0](http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/machine-learning-databases/00240/UCI%20HAR%20Dataset.names "Click to view document")

The following is a general description of the steps toward the analysis:

- Merge of the training and test sets to create one data set.
- Extraction of the reading on the mean and standard deviation for each main feature.
- Add descriptive names to each activity recorded in the data set.
- Label all resulting data set variables with descriptive names.
- Save the resulting tidy data set for future extended analysis.
- Create a secondary data set with averages of all variables grouped by each activity and by each subject.

____

## Files Included in Repo

**CodeBook.md -** File with detailed information about the steps to create the final data sets and a description of each variable.

**UCI HAR Dataset -** Folder containing original train and test data set. This folder also contains a new folder with both original data sets merged into one data set named 'all'.

**run_analysis.R -** Script file containing the R code to generate data sets and analysis described in CodeBook.md.

**TidyData -** Folder containing the R data frame resulting from the cleaning of the original data set.

**AnalysisData -** Folder containing the R data frame resulting from the general analysis of the Tidy Data set. Details about this folder can be found at the CodeBook.md.

**generate_CodeBook_Data.R -** Script file containing R code to generate some of the data needed for the compilation of the CodeBook.

**TidyFeaturesColumnsIndex.csv -** File containing data generated by 'generate_CodeBook_Data.R' and needed for the compilation of the CodeBook.

